ClickHouse and Metabase tutorial (#1736)
aiven/devportal: docs/tutorials/clickhouse-metabase.rst

Depending on your operating system and preferences, you can choose among two approaches when `setting up the open source edition of Metabase <https://www.metabase.com/start/oss/>`_: using a Docker image and running Metabase as a jar.

In this tutorial we'll be using `Docker <https://www.docker.com/>`_. However, similar results can be achieved using the ``.jar`` file.

If you don't have a license token for a paid version of Metabase and you don't need a production installation, these steps `for the quick start <https://www.metabase.com/docs/latest/installation-and-operation/running-metabase-on-docker#open-source-quick-start>`_ plus a minor adjustment `to include a ClickHouse driver <https://www.metabase.com/docs/latest/installation-and-operation/running-metabase-on-docker#adding-external-dependencies-or-plugins>`_ is what you need.

When starting your Docker container, make sure that you have access to the mounted folder. We'll need this folder for the next step.

.. code:: bash

    docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name metabase metabase/metabase

.. code:: bash

    docker run -d -p 3000:3000 \
    --mount type=bind,source=/path-to-plugins-folder,destination=/plugins \

>     --name metabase metabase/metabase

Reviewer: Do we only need the second of these examples?
And maybe explain briefly that `/path-to-plugins-folder` is the path you want *outside* docker?

.. image:: /images/tutorials/clickhouse-metabase/docker.gif

>    :alt: Animated GIF showing pulling latest docker image and running it

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to play in the preview.
Maybe put a line in front of it saying "Here is a preview of how that should work" ?

Author: Interesting, I see them all playing in the preview. Can it be that the image was still loading?

Adding drivers
++++++++++++++
Metabase comes with a predefined set of supported database. ClickHouse is not in `the list of officially supported drivers <https://www.metabase.com/docs/latest/databases/connecting#connecting-to-supported-databases>`_, but we can include it `as a third-party community driver <https://www.metabase.com/docs/latest/developers-guide/partner-and-community-drivers#community-drivers>`_.

You can find ClickHouse driver (and extra documentation, in case you need it) in ClickHouse driver for Metabase `GitHub repository <https://github.com/ClickHouse/metabase-clickhouse-driver>`_.

Load the driver by going `to the latest release <https://github.com/ClickHouse/metabase-clickhouse-driver/releases>`_ and selecting ``clickhouse.metabase-driver.jar`` from the list of assets.

.. image:: /images/tutorials/clickhouse-metabase/driver.gif

>    :alt: Animated GIF showing loading the driver for ClickHouse Metabase from the GitHub page

Reviewer: Whereas this GIF does play in the preview

.. code:: sql

    SELECT menu_currency, count() FROM menu_item_denorm
    GROUP BY menu_currency

The results will appear below the query editor. To visualise the findings, click on the button **Visualisation**. This will show you a set of possible options that fit your data. For this specific example, for example you can use a pie chart.

Once you're happy with the visualisation, save it. Metabase will also suggest adding the visualisation to a dashboard. If you don't want to do it yet, you can add it later.

.. image:: /images/tutorials/clickhouse-metabase/query1.gif
   :alt: Animated GIF showing creation of a new visualisation based on SQL query

Using the visual editor
+++++++++++++++++++++++

Alternatively, you can create a query using Metabase visual editor. For instance, out of curiosity we'll look at dishes that were popular before 1920, but then disappeared from the menu.

Press on the **New** button and select **Question** from the available options.

> Metabase will ask you to pick the database and the table to run requests. Select **AivenForClickHouse** (or the name you gave to your database) and ``Menu Item Denorm``. Once data is selected you'll lend on the wizard with multiple options to shape the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metabase will ask you to pick the database and the table to run requests. Select **AivenForClickHouse** (or the name you gave to your database) and ``Menu Item Denorm``. Once data is selected you'll use the wizard with multiple options to shape the request.
```
`lend on` doesn't work for me? Did you mean `lean on`? Or perhaps just `use`.
